Building and Installing libdmtx
-----------------------------------------------------------------

1. Unpackaging
::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::

libdmtx is distributed as 2 files: one for source code and
another for additional test images.  The test images are
optional, but can be useful for testing purposes.

To install everything, place both files in the same directory
and untar them as follows (example uses v0.4 filenames):

For .bz2 files:
  $ tar jxvf libdmtx-0.4.0.tar.bz2

For .gz files:
  $ tar zxvf libdmtx-0.4.0.tar.gz

For .tar files:
  $ tar xvf libdmtx-images-0.4.0.tar

Note: If your system uses an older version of tar you might
      need to do it in two steps, like this:

  $ gunzip libdmtx-0.4.0.tar.gz && tar xvf libdmtx-0.4.0.tar


2. libdmtx - Building and Installing the Core Library
::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::

libdmtx uses GNU Autotools so the installation should be
familiar to veteran free software users:

As yourself, first run:

  $ ./configure

and then run:

  $ make

If this throws any errors you probably want to check the
Dependencies section below and install any missing software
before trying again.

If you're awesome then it built correctly on the first try and
you can execute any of the resulting programs that were built
in the subdirectories, including:

  * test/test_simple/simpletest
  * test/test_opengl/gltest
  * util/dmtxread/dmtxread
  * util/dmtxwrite/dmtxwrite

Note: gltest must be executed from the gltest test directory
      due to a relative path embedded in the code.

If these appear to be working and you want to install the core
library and utility programs system-wide (not including test
programs), then log in as root and run:

$ make install

This installs the library files to /usr/local/lib, utilities to
/usr/local/bin, and man pages to /usr/local/share/man (unless
you specified a different "--prefix" during the configure step
above).

Did you encounter any problems?  If you have done these steps
and it still won't build then please post a message to the
libdmtx "Help" forum at

  http://sourceforge.net/forum/forum.php?forum_id=513654

so we can review your issue and the solution can be found by
others might experiencing the same problem.


3. Building and Installing the Python Bindings
::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::

If you wish to call libdmtx from programs written in Python
then you must also install the Python binding located in the
bindings/python directory.  See the INSTALL file in that
directory for further instructions.


4. Building the Test Programs: gltest and simpletest
::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::

The gltest program uses OpenGL (or Mesa) to simulate raw camera
input.  If it successfully finds and decodes a Data Matrix
symbol then it will write the decoded stream to STDOUT.  The
program uses the images from the libdmtx/test/images_opengl
directory (the only images that are included in the non-
optional source package), and you can cycle through them by
right-clicking anywhere on the open gltest window.

The simpletest program is a simple test program.


5. Dependencies
::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::

The following packages are required to build libdmtx and its
associated programs:

libdmtx:
  (none)

gltest:
  mesa-libGL
  mesa-libGL-devel
  mesa-libGLU
  mesa-libGLU-devel
  SDL
  SDL-devel
  libpng
  libpng-devel

simpletest:
  (none)

dmtxread:
  libpng
  libpng-devel
  libtiff
  libtiff-devel

dmtxwrite:
  libpng
  libpng-devel

If you have an RPM-based system and you want to test for all of
these in one shot, you can give it one of these:

  $ rpm -q libpng libpng-devel libtiff libtiff-devel mesa-libGL \
        mesa-libGL-devel mesa-libGLU mesa-libGLU-devel SDL SDL-devel


6. Anything Else?
::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::

Did I leave anything out?  If you spent hours searching for a
solution that you feel should be included in this file, then
please drop me an email at mike@dragonflylogic.com.
